# Overview of macOS Threats category

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/detection/macos-threats-category/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T10:04:40.273932Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Overview of macOS Threats category
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
This document provides an overview of the rule sets in the macOS Threats
category, the required data sources, and configuration you can use to tune the
alerts generated by these rule sets.
Rule sets in the macOS Threats category help identify threats in macOS
environments using CrowdStrike Falcon, macOS Auditing System (AuditD), and Unix system logs.
This category includes the following rule sets:
Mandiant Intel Emerging Threats
: This rule set contains rules derived from Mandiant Intelligence Campaigns and Significant Events, which cover highly impactful geopolitical and threat activity, as assessed by Mandiant. This activity may include geopolitical conflict, exploitation, phishing, malvertising, ransomware, and supply chain compromises.
Supported devices and log types
This section lists the data required by each rule set. Contact your
Google Security Operations representative if you are collecting endpoint data using different EDR software.
For a list of all Google SecOps supported data sources, see
Supported default parsers
.
Mandiant Front-Line Threats and Mandiant Intel Emerging Threats rule sets
These rule sets have been tested and are supported with the following Google SecOps supported EDR data sources:
Carbon Black (
CB_EDR
)
SentinelOne (
SENTINEL_EDR
)
Crowdstrike Falcon (
CS_EDR
)
These rule sets are being tested and optimized for the following Google SecOps supported EDR data sources:
Tanium
Cybereason EDR (
CYBEREASON_EDR
)
Lima Charlie (
LIMACHARLIE_EDR
)
OSQuery
Zeek
Cylance (
CYLANCE_PROTECT
)
To ingest these logs to Google SecOps, see
Ingest Google Cloud data to Google SecOps
. Contact your Google SecOps representative if you need to collect these logs using a different mechanism.
For a list of all Google SecOps supported data sources, see
Supported default parsers
Tuning alerts returned by macOS Threats category
You can reduce the number of detections a rule or rule set generates using
rule exclusions
.
In the rule exclusion, you define the criteria of a UDM event that excludes the
event from being evaluated by the rule set.
Create one or more rule exclusions to identify criteria in a UDM event that
exclude the event from being evaluated by this rule set or by specific rules in
the rule set. See
Configure rule exclusions
for information about how to do this.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
