# Answer Threat Intelligence questions with Gemini

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/detection/answer-threat-intelligence-questions-gemini/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T10:06:07.135136Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Answer Threat Intelligence questions with Gemini
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
Gemini can answer questions related to threat intelligence about
topics such as threat actors, their associations, and their behavior patterns,
including questions about
MITRE TTPs
.
Threat intelligence questions are limited to information available to your
Google SecOps product edition
. Answers to
questions might vary depending on the product edition. Specifically, threat
intelligence data is more limited in product editions other than Enterprise Plus
because they don't include full access to Mandiant and VirusTotal.
Ask Gemini questions
Open the Gemini pane.
Enter a threat intelligence question. For example:
What is UNC3782?
Review the results.
Investigate further by asking Gemini to create queries to look for
specific indicators of compromise (IOCs) referenced in the threat intelligence reports. Threat
intelligence information is subject to available entitlements from your
Google SecOps license.
Links are provided to any rule sets that might be available for monitoring the type of security issue you entered into Gemini.
At the bottom of the Gemini pane, click
Sources and related content
. Gemini provides links to some of the articles that were the sources for the content used in the summary.
Example: Threat intelligence and security questions
Help me hunt for APT 44
Are there any known attacker tools that use RDP to brute force logins?
Is 103.224.80.44 suspicious?
What types of attacks may be associated with CVE-2020-14145?
Can you provide details around buffer overflow and how it can affect the
target machine?
Gemini and MITRE
The
MITRE ATT&CK® Matrix
is a knowledge base that
documents the TTPs used by real-world cyber adversaries. The MITRE Matrix
provides an understanding of how your organization might be targeted and 
provides a standardized syntax for discussing attacks.
You can ask Gemini questions about MITRE tactics, techniques, and
procedures (TTPs), and receive contextually relevant answers that include the
following MITRE details:
Tactic
Technique
Sub-technique
Detection suggestions
Procedures
Mitigations
Gemini returns a link to the curated detections
Google SecOps makes available for each TTP. You can also ask
Gemini follow up questions to gain additional insight on a MITRE TTP
and how it might impact your enterprise.
Delete a chat session
You can delete your chat conversation session or delete all chat sessions.
Gemini maintains all user conversation histories privately and adheres
to Google Cloud's
responsible AI
practices
. User history is never used to train models.
In the Gemini pane, select
Delete chat
from the menu at the
top right.
Click
Delete chat
at the bottom right to delete the current chat
session.
Optional: To delete all chat sessions, select
Delete all chat sessions
and then click
Delete all chats
.
Provide feedback
You can provide feedback to responses generated by the Gemini AI
investigation assistance. Your feedback helps Google improve the feature and the
output generated by Gemini.
In the Gemini pane, click
thumb_up
Thumb Up
or
thumb_down
Thumb Down
.
Optional: Click
thumb_down
Thumb Down
and provide feedback.
Click
Send feedback
.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
