# Overview of Chrome Enterprise Premium Threats Category

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/detection/chrome-enterprise-threats-category/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T10:04:37.538890Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Overview of Chrome Enterprise Premium Threats Category
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
This document provides an overview of the rule sets within the Chrome Enterprise
Threats category, the required data sources, and configuration you can use to
tune the alerts generated by each rule set. 
Rule sets in the Chrome Enterprise Premium Threats category help identify threats in the
Google Cloud environment using Chrome Enterprise Premium Management logs. This category
includes the following rule sets:
Chrome Extension Threats
: Detects activities related to Chrome extensions
that could indicate malicious or suspicious behavior.
Chrome Browser Threats
: Detects suspicious behavior within Chrome browser that
may indicate a compromise. This includes, but is not limited to, payload
deliveries, exfiltration attempts, and password harvesting.
Supported devices and log types
The rule sets in the Chrome Enterprise Premium Threats category require logs from the
following Google Security Operations data sources:
Chrome Management Logs (
CHROME_MANAGEMENT
)
To feed these logs to Google SecOps, follow the steps in
Collect Google Chrome logs
.
Contact your Google SecOps representative if you need to collect
these logs using a different mechanism.
For a list of all Google SecOps supported data sources, see
Supported log types and default parsers
.
Tune alerts returned by rule sets
You can reduce the number of detections a rule or rule set generates using
rule exclusions
.
A rule exclusion defines the criteria used to exclude an event from being
evaluated by the rule set, or by specific rules in the rule set. Create one or
more rule exclusions to help reduce the volume of detections. See
Configure rule exclusions
for more 
information.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
