# Configure a Google Cloud project for Google SecOps

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/onboard/configure-cloud-project/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:45:27.627008Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Configure a Google Cloud project for Google SecOps
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
A Google Cloud project acts as a control layer for the linked
Google SecOps instance. It stores customer-specific data such as
security telemetry, audit logs, ingestion alerts, and other sensitive
instance-level information.
The following sections describe how to configure your Google Cloud project.
Prerequisites
Each new Google SecOps instance should be linked to a single
Google Cloud project. You can either link to an existing Google Cloud project or
create a new one, depending on your organizational setup and requirements:
We recommend creating a new, dedicated Google Cloud project for each
Google SecOps instance. This approach helps isolate sensitive
security telemetry and audit data specific to the
Google SecOps instance.
To create a new Google Cloud project, see
Create a Google Cloud project
.
If you link your Google SecOps instance to an existing
Google Cloud project, review any existing permissions and restrictions that
could affect the instance's behavior or access.
For more information, see
Grant permissions to the Google SecOps instance
.
Configure a Google Cloud project
The following sections describe how to enable the Chronicle API in the Google Cloud project and configure Essential Contacts.
Enable the Chronicle API in the Google Cloud project
To allow the Google SecOps instance to read from and write to the
linked Google Cloud project, do the following:
Go to the
Manage resources
page in the Google Cloud console.
Go to the Manage Resources page
At the top, click the
Project picker
and select your
Organization
resource.
Select the newly created project.
Go to
APIs & Services
.
Click
+ ENABLE APIS AND SERVICES
.
Search for
Chronicle API
and select it.
Click
Enable
to enable the Chronicle API for the project.
For more information, see
Enabling an API in your Google Cloud project
.
Configure Essential Contacts
Configure Essential Contacts to receive targeted notifications from
Google Cloud. Perform the steps in
Managing contacts for notifications
.
New service account in your project
A new service account is added to your project. The service account is managed
by Google SecOps and has following attributes:
The service account naming pattern is as follows, where the
PROJECT_NUMBER
is unique to the project:
service-
PROJECT_NUMBER
@gcp-sa-chronicle.iam.gserviceaccount.com
The account has the
Chronicle Service Agent
role.
An IAM permission is granted to the project.
To see details of the IAM permission, do the following:
Go to the
IAM
page of your Google Cloud project.
At the top right, select the
Include Google-provided role grants
checkbox.
If you don't see the new service account, check that the
Include Google-provided role grants
button is enabled on the IAM page.
What's next
After completing the steps in this document, perform the following:
Apply security and compliance controls to the project to satisfy your business
use case and organization policies. For more information about how to do this,
see the
Assured Workloads documentation
.
Integrate your Google SecOps instance with an Identity Provider
(IdP), either
Cloud identity
or a
third-party identity provider
.
The Google Cloud project serves as a control layer for you to do the
following:
Enable, inspect, and manage access to audit logs generated by
Google SecOps and stored in Cloud Audit Logs.
Set up custom ingestion outage alerts using Cloud Monitoring.
Store exported historical data.
Enable Google SecOps audit logging by following the steps in
Google Security Operations audit logging information
.
Google SecOps writes Data Access and Admin Activity logs to the project.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
