# Explore the alert overview tab

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/soar/investigate/working-with-alerts/whats-on-the-alert-overview-tab/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T10:07:33.695942Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Explore the alert overview tab
Supported in:
Google secops
SOAR
This document serves as a reference for the
Alert Overview
tab, the
  central interface for triaging alerts within a case. Once you select an alert
  in a case, the system displays its
Alert Overview
tab. If the case
  contains only one alert, you are taken directly to this tab.
Alert Overview widgets
The
Alert Overview
tab displays important information about the alert
  using specific widgets. The information displayed varies based on the alert
  type, and you can execute actions directly from this tab.
Explore tab widgets
The alert view may include the following widgets, based on the view
  configured:
Alerts table
: View a summary of case alerts. Click
View Details
to see more information. If you're a 
  Google Security Operations customer, click
Explore
to be redirected to the
Asset
page to perform more actions. For more information, see
Investigation views
.
Custom fields form
: Enter the relevant 
  information in the custom fields defined here. Click
edit
Edit
to open the form.
Pending Actions
: View all actions awaiting your input 
  to keep the playbook running.
Quick Actions
: This widget lets you quickly execute 
  predefined actions directly from the Alert Overview tab.
JSON results
: View a
JSON
result
  in the system.
Entity Highlights
: View entities associated with the alert.
If you're a Google SecOps customer, click
Explore
to be redirected to the alert
Asset
page to 
    perform more actions. The page you land on depends on the type of entity. 
    For more information, see
Investigation views
.
If you need more detailed information before taking action, click the 
    entity to go to the
Entity Explorer
page and view its full details.
To have a quick look prior to taking action, click
View Details
and a side drawer opens with the entity's highlights.
To run a specific action on an entity, you can click
settings
Manual Action
and create a manual action from here.
Events table
: View all alert events and their
  properties. Click any of the table rows to open a side drawer to see
  events details.
HTML
: View the HTML code that contains relevant 
  information from the playbook results.
Free text
: View administrator-defined information.
Key value
: View and display specific details from various 
  sources; for example,
Key-Product Value- [Alert.Product]
Entities Graph
: View a visual graph and other case entity 
  details. Click an entity and a side drawer opens.
Composite Detections
: Available only to 
  Google SecOps customers who use both SIEM and SOAR. This widget 
  helps you understand the components of alerts within a case. For 
  composite alerts (generated by
chained rules
), the 
  widget displays the contributing detections and alerts, along with their 
  detailed Unified Data Model (UDM) events. For single, non-composite alerts, it
  shows the specific UDM events associated with that alert. This lets you examine the 
  structure of an alert and its causes.
The display you see in the
Alert Overview
tab depends on a variety of 
  factors:
If no playbook is attached to the alert, the default display is defined 
    by the administrator in
SOAR Settings
. For more information, see
Define default alert view
.
If a playbook is present, but the customized views don't include your 
    role, your default display appears.
If the attached playbook has a specific view for your role, the customized
    view displays. For more information, see
Define customized alert views from Playbook Designer
.
If several playbooks are attached to an alert, and have customized views, 
    you can select a different view from the
Alert View
menu.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
