# Collect SOAR logs

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/soar/investigate/collecting-soar-logs/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T10:10:34.423178Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Collect SOAR logs
Supported in:
SOAR
This document describes how to use Google Cloud Logs Explorer to manage and monitor SOAR logs.
The integration provides the following key capabilities:
Centralized monitoring
: View and analyze essential data captured from the Google SecOps SOAR platform's ETL, Playbook, and Python functions (for example, Python script execution, alert ingestion, and playbook performance).
Custom metrics and alerting
: Use Google Cloud tools to configure custom metrics and alerts based on specific events recorded in the Google SecOps SOAR operational logs.
Set up SOAR logs
To set up the SOAR logs, follow these steps:
Create a Service Account in the Google Cloud project where you plan to view the logs. For details, see
Create and manage service accounts
.
Go to
IAM & Admin
>
IAM
.
Locate the Service Account you created and click
edit
Edit principal
.
Go to IAM
In the
Assign Roles
section, select
Logs Writer
. For more information,
see the
predefined Logs Writer role
.
Click
Save
.
Select
Service Accounts
and select your created service account.
Click
more_vert
More
and select
Manage Permissions
.
In the
Permissions
section, click
Grant Access
.
In the
Add Principal
section, add the following principal:
gke-init-backgroundservices@{SOAR-GCP-Project-Id}.iam.gserviceaccount.com
If you don't know the
SOAR_GCP_Project_Id
, submit a ticket through
Google Support
.
In
Assign Roles
, select
Service Account Token Creator
. For more information,
see
Service Account Token Creator
.
Click
Save
.
Provide the name of the configured Service Account to the Google SecOps support team.
SOAR logs
SOAR logs are written in a separate namespace, called
chronicle-soar
, and are categorized by the service that generated the log.
Because the logs are generated by a background job, you must configure this job first to send the logs to Google Cloud:
To access SOAR logs, do the following:
In the Google Cloud console, go to
Logging
>
Logs Explorer
.
Select the
Google SecOps Google Cloud
project.
Enter the following filter in the box and click
Run Query
:
resource.labels.namespace_name="chronicle-soar"
To filter logs from a specific service, enter the following syntax in the query box
and click
Run Query
:
resource.labels.namespace_name="chronicle-soar" 
resource.labels.container_name="<container_name>"
Replace
<container_name>
with the relevant service container:
playbook
,
python
, or
etl
.
Playbook log labels
Playbook log labels provide a more efficient and convenient way to refine a query
scope. All labels are located in the
Labels
section of each
log message.
To narrow the log scope, expand the log message, right-click each label, and 
hide or show specific logs:
The following labels are available:
playbook_name
playbook_definition
block_name
block_definition
case_id
correlation_id
integration_name
action_name
Python logs
The following logs are available for Python service:
resource.labels.container_name="python"
Integration and connector labels:
integration_name
integration_version
connector_name
connector_instance
Job labels:
integration_name
integration_version
job_name
Action labels:
integration_name
integration_version
integration_instance
correlation_id
action_name
ETL logs
The following logs are available for ETL service:
resource.labels.container_name="etl"
ETL labels
correlation_id
For example, to provide the ingestion flow for an alert, filter by
correlation_id
:
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
