# Review case-level data in the Case Overview tab

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/soar/investigate/working-with-cases/whats-on-the-case-overview-tab/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T10:06:49.616324Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Review case-level data in the Case Overview tab
Supported in:
Google secops
SOAR
When you open a case that contains multiple alerts, you're redirected to the
Case Overview
tab. This tab provides an overview of all case-related information.
Depending on your widget configuration, you may find the following widgets in the
Case Overview
tab:
Custom Fields Form
: Fill in values for custom fields defined for the case. Click
edit
Edit
to open the form.
Pending Actions
: Displays actions that require your input to keep the playbook running.
Case description
: Add or view a summary of the case.
Alerts
: Lists alerts grouped in the case, including their names, event counts, and priority. Click
Switch to timeline view
to display the alerts in a graph that shows their timeline.
Insights
: Displays insights generated by playbook actions, general analysis, or manual inputs in HTML format.
Entities highlights
: Displays the entities associated with the case, as follows
Click an entity to open the
Entity Explorer
and view the details.
Click
View
    More
to open a side drawer with the entity details. This can help when you want to view the details before taking an action.
Use this view to launch a manual action directly on the entity.
Latest case wall activity
: Displays a timeline of case wall activity for a selected period.
Recommendations
: Suggests similar cases, recommended analysts, and relevant tags. You can compare related cases with the current one.
Statistics
: Shows distribution graphs for selected entity fields.
Entities graph
: Displays a visual graph of case entities. Click any entity to view details in the side drawer.
HTML
: Renders HTML content from playbook results. Optionally, restricts JavaScript to show only safe code.
Key value
:Displays key-value pairs extracted from alerts or entities (for example,
Key: Product
,
Value: [Alert.Product]
).
Free text
: Displays unstructured information defined by your administrator.
Gemini Summary
: Shows an AI-generated summary with recommendations for remediation.
Quick Actions:
A widget lets you run 
  predefined actions directly from the case
Overview
tab.
Composite Detections
: Available only to 
  Google SecOps unified customers. This widget 
  helps you understand the components of alerts within a case.
For composite alerts (from
chained rules
), it shows contributing detections, alerts, and their associated Unified Data Model (UDM) events.
For non-composite alerts, it displays UDM events associated with that alert.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
