# Use curated detections to identify threats

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/detection/use-curated-detections/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:31:59.171362Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Use curated detections to identify threats
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
Google Threat Intelligence (GCTI) team offers predefined threat
analytics. As part of these curated detections, GCTI provides and manages a
set of YARA-L rules to help customers identify threats to their enterprise.
The GCTI-managed rules do the following:
Provide customers with immediately actionable intelligence which can be used
against their ingested data.
Leverages Google Threat Intelligence by providing customers with a way
to use this information through curated detections.
This document summarizes the steps required to use curated detections to identify
threats, including how to enable curated detection rule sets, view detections
generated by the rule sets, and investigate alerts.
Ingest the required data
Each rule set has been designed to identify pattern in specific data sources and may
require a different set of data, including the following:
Event data: describes activities and events that occurred related to services.
Context data: describes the entities, devices, services, or users defined in
the event data. This is also called entity data.
In documentation describing each rule sets, also review the required data
needed by the rule set.
Verify the ingestion of data
The following methods are available to verify successful data ingestion:
Data Ingestion and Health dashboard: this lets you to monitor ingestion from
all sources.
Managed Detection Testing test rules: Enable test rules to verify the required
incoming data both exists and is in a format required by the specific curated
detection rule set.
Use curated dashboards
Use the curated dashboards—predefined dashboards designed for visibility across
various security use cases. You can create a copy and customize the curated
dashboards to fit your requirements. For more information, see
Curated dashboards overview
.
Optional: Use Managed Detection Testing test rules
Certain categories also provided as set of test rules that can help you
verify that data required for each rule set is in the correct format.
These test rules are under the
Managed Detection Testing
category. Each rule
set validates that data received by the test device is in a format expected by
rules for that specified category.
This is useful if you want to verify the ingestion set up or if you want to
troubleshoot an issue. For detailed steps about how to use these test rules,
see
Verify data ingestion using test rules
.
Enable rule sets
Curated detections are threat analytics delivered as YARA-L rule sets that
help you identify threats to their enterprise. These rule sets do the following:
Provide you with immediately actionable intelligence which can be used against
their ingested data.
Use Google Threat Intelligence by providing you with a way to
use this information.
Each rule set identifies a specific pattern of suspicious activity. To enable
and view details about rule sets, do the following:
Select
Detections
>
Rules & Detections
from the main menu.
The default tab is
Curated detections
and the default view is rule sets.
Click
Curated Detections
to open the
Rule Sets
view.
Select a rule set in the Cloud Threats category, such as
CDIR SCC Enhanced Exfiltration Alerts
.
Set
Status
to
Enabled
and
Alerting
to
On
for both
Broad
and
Precise
rules. The rules will evaluate incoming data for patterns that
match rule logic. With
Status
=
Enabled
, the rules generate a
detection when a pattern match is found. With
Alerting
=
On
the rules
also generate an alert when a pattern match is found.
For information about working with curated detections page, see the following:
Curated detections page and rule sets
View details about a rule set
If you don't receive detections or alerts after enabling a rule set, you can
perform steps to trigger one or more test rules that verify data required for
the rule set is being received and is in the correct format. For more information,
see
Verify log data ingestion
.
Identify detections created by the rule set
The curated detections dashboard displays information about each rule that
generated a detection against your data. To open the curated detection dashboard,
do the following:
Select
Detections
>
Rules & Detections
from the main menu.
Click
Curated Detections
>
Dashboard
to open the Dashboard view. You
will see a list of rule sets and individual rules that generated detections.
Rules are grouped by rule set.
Go to the rule set of interest, such as
CDIR SCC Enhanced Exfiltration Alerts
.
To view the detections generated by a specific rule, click the rule. This
opens the
Detections
page which displays the detections, plus the entity
or event data that generated the detection.
You can filter and search on the data in this view.
For more information, see
View curated detections
and
Open the curated detection dashboard
.
Tune alerts returned by one or more rule sets
You might find that the curated detections generate too many detections or alerts.
You can reduce the number of detections a rule or rule set generates using
rule exclusions
. Rule exclusions are
used only with curated detections, and not with custom rules.
A rule exclusion defines the criteria used to exclude an event from being evaluated
by the rule set, or by specific rules in the rule set. Create one or more rule exclusions
to help reduce the volume of detections. For example, you might exclude events based
on the following
Unified Data Model
(UDM) fields:
metadata.product_event_type
principal.user.userid
target.resource.name
target.resource.product_object_id
additional.fields["recipientAccountId"]
principal.ip
network.http.user_agent
Investigate alerts created by the rule set
The
Alerts & IOCs
page, gives context about the alert and
related entities. You can view details about an alert, manage the alert, and
view relationships with entities.
Select
Detections
>
Alerts & IOCs
from the main menu.
The
Alerts
view displays a list of alerts generated by all rules.
Select the time range to filter the list of alerts.
Filter the list by rule set name, such as
CDIR SCC Enhanced Exfiltration
.
You can also filter the list by rule name, such as
SCC: BigQuery Exfiltration to Google Drive with DLP Context
.
Click an alert in the list to open the
Alerts & IOCs
page.
The
Alerts & IOCs
>
Overview
tab displays details about the alert.
Gather investigative context using entity graph
The
Alerts & IOCs
>
Graph
tab displays an alert graph that visually
represents relationships between an alert and other alerts, or between an alert
and other entities.
Select
Detections
>
Alerts & IOCs
from the main
menu. The
Alerts
view displays a list of alerts generated by all rules.
Select the time range to filter the list of alerts.
Filter the list by the rule set name, such as
CDIR SCC Enhanced
Exfiltration
. You can also filter the list by the rule name, such as
SCC: BigQuery Exfiltration to Google Drive with DLP Context
.
Click an alert in the list to open the
Alerts & IOCs
page.
The
Alerts & IOCs
>
Graph
tab displays the alert graph.
Select a node in the alert graph to view details about the node.
Gather investigative context using UDM Search
You can use the UDM search capability during your investigation to gather
additional context about events related to the original alert. UDM Search lets you
find UDM events and alerts generated by rules. UDM Search includes a variety of search options,
enabling you to navigate through your UDM data. You can search both for
individual UDM events and groups of UDM events related to specific search terms.
Select
Search
from the main menu to open the
UDM Search
page.
For information about UDM Search queries, see
Enter a UDM search
.
For guidance about writing UDM Search queries optimized for performance and
capabilities of the feature, see
UDM Search best practices
.
Create a response from an alert
If an alert or detection requires an incident response, you can initiate the response using SOAR features. For more information, see
Cases overview
and
Overview of the Playbooks screen
.
What's next
Review rule sets in the following:
Overview of Cloud Threats category
Overview of Windows Threats category
Overview of Linux Threats category
Overview of Risk Analytics for UEBA category
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
