# Viewing rules in Rules Dashboard

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/detection/view-all-rules/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:31:19.050551Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Viewing rules in Rules Dashboard
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
To open the Rules Dashboard in Google Security Operations, select
Rules
from 
the menu icon
apps
.
The Rules Dashboard displays all of the rules you
have stored within your Google SecOps account. On systems that use
data RBAC, you can view and manage only those rules that are bound to a data
scope that you have access to.
The rules dashboard includes the following features:
Trend chart displays the rule with the greatest number of detections over the
past 3 weeks.
Displays a graph of the activity associated with the rules. Hovering over a bar in the chart
displays the date and number of detections.
Run frequency indicates the approximate frequency the rule will execute.
Live Status (Enabled or Disabled).
Rule severity as in the Rule metadata.
If you hover over a rule and click the menu icon to the right, you can open 
the
Rule Settings
menu and manipulate the
Live Rule
,
Run Frequency
, and
Notifications
options.
Live Rule
monitors your incoming logs for threats until it is deleted or disabled.
Alerting indicates an anomaly in the normal workflow of traffic within the enterprise. You should 
investigate alerts as a possible breach of security.
Run Frequency
indicates the approximate frequency the rule will execute and impacts the latency with 
which detections are discovered for each rule.
YARA-L Retrohunt
lets you use the selected rule to search for detections throughout existing
data in Google SecOps.
Edit Rule
lets you edit existing rules and create new rules.
View Rule Detections
lets you view detections generated by a live rule.
Archive
hides the rule and the security data related to that rule (and all of its versions) without
actually deleting the rule.
Clicking a rule name opens the
Rule Detections
view.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
