# Generate a YARA-L 2.0 rule using Gemini

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/detection/generate-yara-l-with-gemini/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:31:28.371561Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Generate a YARA-L 2.0 rule using Gemini
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
On the Gemini pane, use a natural language prompt to generate a
rule (for example,
Create a rule to count how many DNS responses were
truncated per principal asset host.
), and then click
Enter
.
Gemini generates a rule to detect the behavior you've searched for
in the Gemini pane.
Click
Open in rule editor
to view and modify the new rule in the Rules
Editor. You can only create single-event rules using this feature.
For example, using the previous rule prompt, Gemini could generate
the following rule:
rule gemini_rule {
  meta:
    author = "Gemini in Google SecOps"
    description = "Prompt: Create a rule to count how many DNS responses were truncated per principal asset host."

  events:
    $e.metadata.event_type = "NETWORK_DNS"
    $e.network.dns.response = true
    $e.network.dns.truncated = true
    $ph_principal_asset_hostname = $e.principal.asset.hostname

  match:
    $ph_principal_asset_hostname over 1h

  outcome:
    $event_count = count($e.metadata.id)

  condition:
    $e
}
To activate the rule, click
Save New Rule
. The rule appears in the list
of rules to the left. Hold the pointer over the rule, click the menu icon,
and toggle the
Live Rule
option to the right (green). For more
information, see
Manage rules using Rules
Editor
.
Delete a chat session
You can delete your chat conversation session or delete all chat sessions.
Gemini maintains all user conversation histories privately and adheres
to Google Cloud's
responsible AI
practices
. User history is never used to train models.
In the Gemini pane, select
Delete chat
from the menu at the
top right.
Click
Delete chat
at the bottom right to delete the current chat
session.
Optional: To delete all chat sessions, select
Delete all chat sessions
and then click
Delete all chats
.
Provide feedback
You can provide feedback to responses generated by the Gemini AI
investigation assistance. Your feedback helps Google improve the feature and the
output generated by Gemini.
In the Gemini pane, click
thumb_up
Thumb Up
or
thumb_down
Thumb Down
.
Optional: Click
thumb_down
Thumb Down
and provide feedback.
Click
Send feedback
.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
