# Gemini documentation summaries

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/secops/gemini-docs/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:14:35.143499Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Gemini documentation summaries
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
SOAR
You can use Gemini to answer questions about Google SecOps based on the documentation. Enter a prompt in the Gemini pane to request information about any aspect of how to use Google SecOps. Gemini generates a summary based on relevant documentation.
The following are some example prompts that can return documentation summaries:
How do I configure the forwarder
How do I create a rule
How do I investigate user logins
Gemini always provides replies with a summary and might also include links to related documentation pages.
Delete a chat session
You can delete your chat conversation session or delete all chat sessions.
Gemini maintains all user conversation histories privately and adheres
to Google Cloud's
responsible AI
practices
. User history is never used to train models.
In the Gemini pane, select
Delete chat
from the menu at the
top right.
Click
Delete chat
at the bottom right to delete the current chat
session.
Optional: To delete all chat sessions, select
Delete all chat sessions
and then click
Delete all chats
.
Provide feedback
You can provide feedback to responses generated by the Gemini AI
investigation assistance. Your feedback helps Google improve the feature and the
output generated by Gemini.
In the Gemini pane, click
thumb_up
Thumb Up
or
thumb_down
Thumb Down
.
Optional: Click
thumb_down
Thumb Down
and provide feedback.
Click
Send feedback
.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
