# Ingest Google Cloud data to Google Security Operations

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/ingestion/cloud/ingest-gcp-logs/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:16:42.919053Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Ingest Google Cloud data to Google Security Operations
Supported in:
Google secops
SIEM
This page describes how to enable and disable Google Cloud data ingestion into Google SecOps. This lets you store, search, and examine aggregated security information for your enterprise, going back for months or longer, in accordance with your data retention period.
Overview
There are two options to send Google Cloud data to Google SecOps. Choosing the right option depends on log type.
Option 1: Direct ingestion
A special Cloud Logging filter can be configured in Google Cloud to send specific log types to Google SecOps in real-time. These logs are generated by Google Cloud services.
Logs are collected starting from the time the filter is configured. 
Logs generated prior to configuration are not included.
This real-time forwarding applies to Cloud Logging, Cloud Asset Metadata, and Security Command Center Premium findings.
Google Security Operations only ingests supported log types. Available log types include:
Cloud Audit Logs
Cloud NAT
Cloud DNS
Cloud Next Generation Firewall
Cloud Intrusion Detection System
Cloud Load Balancing
Cloud SQL
Windows Event logs
Linux syslog
Linux Sysmon
Zeek
Google Kubernetes Engine
Audit Daemon (
auditd
)
Apigee
reCAPTCHA Enterprise
Cloud Run logs (
GCP_RUN
)
Google Cloud Abuse Events
Google Cloud DNS Advanced Threat Detection (
GCP_DNS_ATD
)
Model Armor logs
For details about the specific log filters and more ingestion details, see
Export Google Cloud logs
to Google SecOps.
You can also send Google Cloud asset metadata used for context enrichment.
For details, see
Export Google Cloud asset metadata
to Google SecOps.
Option 2: Google Cloud Storage
Cloud Logging can
route logs
to Cloud Storage by Google SecOps on a scheduled basis.
For details about how to configure Cloud Storage for Google SecOps, see
Feed Management: Cloud Storage
.
Before you begin
Before you can ingest Google Cloud data into a Google SecOps instance, you must complete the following steps:
Grant the following
Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles
at an organizational level to access the Google SecOps section:
Chronicle Service Admin
(
roles/chroniclesm.admin
): IAM role for performing all activities.
Chronicle Service Viewer
(
roles/chroniclesm.viewer
): IAM role to only view the state of ingestion.
Security Center Admin Editor
(
roles/securitycenter.adminEditor
): Required to enable the ingestion of
Cloud Asset Metadata
.
If you plan to enable
Cloud Asset Metadata
, you must onboard the
organization to the Security Command Center.
See
Overview of organization-level activation
for more information.
Granting IAM roles
You can grant the required IAM roles using either the Google Cloud console or using the gcloud CLI.
To grant IAM roles using Google Cloud console, complete the following steps:
Sign in to the Google Cloud organization you want to connect to and go to the IAM screen using
Products > IAM & Admin > IAM
.
From the
IAM
screen, select the user and click
Edit Member
.
In the Edit Permissions screen, click
Add Another Role
and search for Google SecOps to find the IAM roles.
Once you have assigned the roles, click
Save
.
To grant IAM roles using the Google Cloud CLI, complete the following steps:
Run
gcloud init
to verify that you're logged into the correct organization and project.
To grant the Chronicle Service Admin IAM role using
gcloud
, run the following command:
gcloud
organizations
add-iam-policy-binding
ORGANIZATION_ID
\
--member
"user:
USER_EMAIL
"
\
--role
roles/chroniclesm.admin
Replace the following:
ORGANIZATION_ID
: the numeric organization ID.
USER_EMAIL
: the user's email address.
To grant the Chronicle Service Viewer IAM role using
gcloud
, run the following command:
gcloud
organizations
add-iam-policy-binding
ORGANIZATION_ID
\
--member
"user:
USER_EMAIL
"
\
--role
roles/chroniclesm.viewer
To grant the Security Center Admin Editor IAM role using
gcloud
, run the following command:
gcloud
organizations
add-iam-policy-binding
ORGANIZATION_ID
\
--member
"user:
USER_EMAIL
"
\
--role
roles/securitycenter.adminEditor
`
To grant the Organization Role Viewer IAM role using
gcloud
, run the following command:
gcloud
organizations
add-iam-policy-binding
ORGANIZATION_ID
\
--member
"user:
USER_EMAIL
"
\
--role
roles/iam.organizationRoleViewer
Enable direct ingestion from Google Cloud
The steps to enable direct ingestion from Google Cloud are different depending
on the ownership of the project that your Google SecOps instance is bound to.
If it is bound to a project that you own and manage, follow the steps in
Configure ingestion when project owned by customer
.
This approach lets you configure the data ingestion from more than one Google Cloud organization.
If it is bound to a project that Google Cloud owns and manages,
follow the steps in
Configure ingestion for a Google managed project
.
After you configure direct ingestion, your Google Cloud data is sent to Google SecOps.
You can use Google SecOps's analysis features to investigate security related issues.
Configure ingestion when project owned by customer
Do the following steps if you own the Google Cloud project.
You can configure direct ingestion from multiple organizations using the same project-level
configuration page. Do the following steps to create a new configuration and edit an
existing configuration.
When you migrate an existing Google SecOps instance so that it binds to a project that you own,
and if direct ingestion was configured before the migration, the direct ingestion configuration is
migrated as well.
Go to the
Google SecOps
>
Ingestion Settings
page in the Google Cloud console.
Go to the
Google SecOps
page
Select the project that is bound to your Google SecOps instance.
In the
Organization
menu, select the organization from which logs will
be exported.
The menu displays organizations you have permission to access. The list can include organizations that aren't linked to the Google SecOps instance. You cannot configure an organization that sends data to a different Google SecOps instance.
Under the
Google Cloud Ingestion setting
section, click the
Sending data to Google Security Operations
toggle to enable logs to be sent to Google SecOps.
Select one or more of the following options to define the type of data sent to Google SecOps:
Google Cloud Logging
: For more information about this option, see
Export Google Cloud logs
.
Cloud Asset Metadata
: For more information about this option, see
Export Google Cloud asset metadata
.
Security Center Premium findings
: For more information about this option, see
Export Security Center Premium findings
.
Under the
Customer export filter settings
section, configure
export filters
to customize the Cloud Logging
data sent to Google SecOps. See
Google Cloud log types
supported for export
.
To ingest logs from an additional organization to the same Google SecOps instance,
select the organization from the
Organization
menu, and then repeat the
steps to define the type of data to export and export filters.
You will see multiple organizations listed in the
Organization
menu.
To export Sensitive Data Protection data (previously called Google Cloud Data Loss Prevention data) to Google SecOps, see
Export Sensitive Data Protection data
.
Configure ingestion for a Google managed project
If Google Cloud owns the project, do the following to configure direct ingestion
from your Google Cloud organization into your Google SecOps instance:
Go to the
Google SecOps
>
Overview
>
Ingestion
tab in the Google Cloud console.
Go to the Google SecOps Ingestion tab
Click the
Manage organization ingestion settings
button.
If a
Page not viewable for projects
message appears, select an
organization, and click
Select
.
Enter your one-time access code in the
1-time Google SecOps access code
field.
Check the box labeled
I consent to the terms and conditions of
Google SecOps's usage of my Google Cloud data
.
Click
Connect Google SecOps
.
Go to the
Global Ingestion Settings
tab for the organization.
Select the type of data that will be sent by enabling one or more of the following options:
Google Cloud Logging
: For more information about this option, see
Export Google Cloud Logs
.
Cloud Asset Metadata
For more information about this option, see
Export Google Cloud asset metadata
.
Security Center Premium findings
: For more information about this option, see
Export Security Center Premium findings
.
Go to the
Export Filter Settings
tab.
Under the
Customer export filter settings
section, configure
export filters
to customize the Cloud Logging
data sent to Google SecOps. See
Google Cloud log types
supported for export
.
To export Sensitive Data Protection data (previously called Google Cloud Data Loss Prevention data) to Google SecOps, see
Export Sensitive Data Protection data
.
Export Google Cloud logs
After
enabling Cloud Logging
, you can export log data for the supported
Google Cloud log types to your Google SecOps instance.
To export Google Cloud logs to Google SecOps, set the
Enable Cloud logs
toggle to
Enabled
.
Log types supported for export
You can
customize the export filter
of the logs to export to Google SecOps. Include or exclude log types by adding or removing supported export filters, which are listed in this section.
You can export the following Google Cloud log types to your Google SecOps instance. The following list is organized by log type and corresponding Google SecOps ingestion label:
Cloud Audit Logs
(
GCP_CLOUDAUDIT
):
This includes Admin Activity, Data Access, System Event, Access Transparency, and Policy Denied logs.
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/activity")
(exported by the default filter)
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/system_event")
(exported by the default filter)
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/policy")
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/access_transparency")
Cloud NAT logs
(
GCP_CLOUD_NAT
):
log_id("compute.googleapis.com/nat_flows")
Cloud DNS logs
(
GCP_DNS
):
log_id("dns.googleapis.com/dns_queries")
(exported by the default filter)
Cloud Next Generation Firewall logs
(
GCP_FIREWALL
):
log_id("compute.googleapis.com/firewall")
GCP_IDS
:
log_id("ids.googleapis.com/threat")
log_id("ids.googleapis.com/traffic")
GCP_LOADBALANCING
:
This includes logs from Google Cloud Armor and Cloud Load Balancing (both 
External and Internal).
log_id("requests")
log_id("loadbalancing.googleapis.com/requests")
GCP_CLOUDSQL
:
log_id("cloudsql.googleapis.com/mysql-general.log")
log_id("cloudsql.googleapis.com/mysql.err")
log_id("cloudsql.googleapis.com/postgres.log")
log_id("cloudsql.googleapis.com/sqlagent.out")
log_id("cloudsql.googleapis.com/sqlserver.err")
GCP_VPC_FLOW
:
log_id("compute.googleapis.com/vpc_flows")
(for US and EU regions only)
NIX_SYSTEM
:
log_id("syslog")
log_id("authlog")
log_id("securelog")
log_id("osconfig.googleapis.com/patch_job")
LINUX_SYSMON
:
log_id("sysmon.raw")
WINEVTLOG
:
log_id("winevt.raw")
log_id("windows_event_log")
BRO_JSON
:
log_id("zeek_json_streaming_conn")
log_id("zeek_json_streaming_dhcp")
log_id("zeek_json_streaming_dns")
log_id("zeek_json_streaming_http")
log_id("zeek_json_streaming_ssh")
log_id("zeek_json_streaming_ssl")
KUBERNETES_NODE
:
log_id("events")
log_id("stdout")
log_id("stderr")
AUDITD
:
log_id("audit_log")
GCP_APIGEE_X
:
log_id("apigee.googleapis.com/ingress_instance")
log_id("apigee.googleapis.com")
log_id("apigee-logs")
log_id("apigee")
logName =~ "^projects/[\w\-]+/logs/apigee[\w\-\.]*$"
GCP_RECAPTCHA_ENTERPRISE
:
log_id("recaptchaenterprise.googleapis.com/assessment")
log_id("recaptchaenterprise.googleapis.com/annotation")
GCP_RUN
:
log_id("run.googleapis.com/stderr")
log_id("run.googleapis.com/stdout")
log_id("run.googleapis.com/requests")
log_id("run.googleapis.com/varlog/system")
GCP_NGFW_ENTERPRISE
:
log_id("networksecurity.googleapis.com/firewall_threat")
GCP_ABUSE_EVENTS
:
log_id("abuseevent.googleapis.com/abuse_events")
GCP_DNS_ATD
log_id("networksecurity.googleapis.com/dns_threat_events")
Model Armor logs (
GCP_MODEL_ARMOR
):
This includes logs for sanitization operations (screening prompts and responses) and template operations (creation, updates).
log_id("modelarmor.googleapis.com/sanitize_operations")
log_id("modelarmor.googleapis.com/templates")
Customize export filter settings
By default, your Cloud Audit Logs (Admin Activity and System Event) and Cloud DNS
logs are sent to your Google SecOps instance. However, you can customize
the export filter to include or exclude specific types of logs.
To define a custom filter for your logs, do the following:
Identify the logs for your custom filter using the
log scoping tool
.
In the
Auto-generated log filter
section that follows the log scoping tool, copy the generated custom log filter code.
Go to the
Google SecOps
page in the Google Cloud console
and select a project.
Go to the
Google SecOps
page
Launch the Logs Explorer using the link on the
Export Filter Settings
tab.
Copy your new query into the
Query
field and click
Run Query
to test it.
Copy your new query into the
Logs Explorer
>
Query
field, and then click
Run Query
to test it.
Verify that the matched logs displayed in the
Logs Explorer
are exactly
what you intend to export to Google SecOps. When the filter is ready,
copy it to the
Custom export filter settings
section for Google SecOps.
Go back to the
Custom export filter settings
section on the
Google SecOps
page.
Click the
Edit
icon in the
Export filter
field, and then paste the copied filter into the field.
Click
Save
.
If the following error message appears: "The provided filter can
potentially allow unsupported log types", there may be an unsupported log
type included in the export filter. Remove the unsupported log type from
the export filter. Only include log types listed in:
Google Cloud log types supported for
export
.
If the save is successful, your new custom filter works against all new logs exported to your
Google SecOps instance.
Optional: To reset the export filter to the default version, save a copy of your custom filter, and then click
Reset
to Default
.
Tune Cloud Audit Logs filters
Data Access logs written by Cloud Audit Logs can produce a large volume of data without much value for threat detection. If you choose to send these logs to Google SecOps, you should filter out logs that are generated by routine activities.
The following export filter captures Data Access logs and excludes high-volume events such as Read and List operations of Cloud Storage and Cloud SQL:
( log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/data_access")
  AND NOT protoPayload.methodName =~ "^storage\.(buckets|objects)\.(get|list)$"
  AND NOT protoPayload.request.cmd = "select"  
  AND NOT protoPayload.methodName =~ "^google\.spanner\.v1\.Spanner\.(ExecuteStreamingSql|BeginTransaction|Commit)$" )
For more information about tuning Data Access logs generated by Cloud Audit Logs, see
Manage the volume of Data Access audit logs
.
Export Filter examples
The following export filter examples illustrate how you can include or exclude certain types of logs from the export to your Google SecOps instance.
Export Filter Example: Include additional log types
The following export filter exports access transparency logs in addition to the default logs:
log_id("dns.googleapis.com/dns_queries") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/activity") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/system_event") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/access_transparency")
Export Filter Example: Include additional logs from a specific project
The following export filter exports access transparency logs from a specific project, in addition to the default logs:
log_id("dns.googleapis.com/dns_queries") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/activity") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/system_event") OR
logName = "projects/my-project-id/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Faccess_transparency"
Export Filter Example: Include additional logs from a specific folder
The following export filter exports access transparency logs from a specific folder, in addition to the default logs:
log_id("dns.googleapis.com/dns_queries") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/activity") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/system_event") OR
logName = "folders/my-folder-id/logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Faccess_transparency"
Export Filter Example: Exclude logs from a specific project
The following export filter exports the default logs from the entire Google Cloud organization with the exception of a specific project:
(log_id("dns.googleapis.com/dns_queries") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/activity") OR
log_id("cloudaudit.googleapis.com/system_event")) AND
(NOT logName =~ "^projects/my-project-id/logs/.*$")
Export Google Cloud asset metadata
You can export your Google Cloud asset metadata from Cloud Asset Inventory   to Google SecOps.
This asset metadata is drawn from your Cloud Asset Inventory and consists of information
about your assets, resources, and identities including the following:
Environment
Location
Zone
Hardware models
Access control relationships between resources and identities
The following types of Google Cloud asset metadata will be exported to your Google SecOps instance:
GCP_BIGQUERY_CONTEXT
GCP_COMPUTE_CONTEXT
GCP_IAM_CONTEXT
GCP_IAM_ANALYSIS
GCP_STORAGE_CONTEXT
GCP_CLOUD_FUNCTIONS_CONTEXT
GCP_SQL_CONTEXT
GCP_NETWORK_CONNECTIVITY_CONTEXT
GCP_RESOURCE_MANAGER_CONTEXT
The following are examples of Google Cloud asset metadata:
Application name—
Google-iamSample/0.1
Project name—
projects/my-project
To export Google Cloud asset metadata to Google SecOps, set the
Cloud Asset Metadata
toggle to
Enabled
.
For more information about exporting specific context logs and ingesting them into Google SecOps, see
Default parser configuration and ingestion
and search for 'context' or 'analysis'.
Export Security Command Center findings
You can export Security Command Center Premium Event Threat Detection findings and all other findings to Google SecOps.
Google SecOps supports the following
Security Command Center finding classes
:
ERROR
MISCONFIGURATION
OBSERVATION
POSITIVE_VALIDATION
POSTURE_VIOLATION
THREAT
TOXIC_COMBINATION
UNSPECIFIED
VULNERABILITY
For more information about ETD findings, see
Overview of Event Threat Detection
.
To export your Security Command Center Premium findings to Google SecOps, set the
Security Command Center Premium Findings
toggle to
Enabled
.
Export Sensitive Data Protection data
You can export your Sensitive Data Protection data to Google SecOps.
To ingest Sensitive Data Protection asset metadata (
DLP_CONTEXT
), perform the following:
Enable Google Cloud data ingestion by completing the previous section in this document.
Configure Sensitive Data Protection to
profile data
.
Set the scan configuration to
publish data profiles
to Google SecOps.
See
Sensitive Data Protection documentation
for detailed information
about creating data profiles for BigQuery data.
Disable Google Cloud data ingestion
The steps to disable direct ingestion of data from Google Cloud are different depending on how Google SecOps is configured. Choose one of the following:
If your Google SecOps instance is bound to a project that you own and
manage, perform the following steps:
Select the project that is bound to your Google SecOps instance.
In the Google Cloud console, go to the
Ingestion
tab under
Google SecOps
.
Go to the
Google SecOps
page
In the
Organization
menu, select the organization from which logs are exported.
Set the
Sending data to Google Security Operations
toggle to
Disabled
.
If you configured data export from multiple Organizations, and you want to
disable these as well, do these steps for each organization.
If your Google SecOps instance is bound to a project that Google Cloud owns
and manages, perform the following steps:
Go to the
Google SecOps
>
Ingestion
page in the Google Cloud console.
Go to the
Google SecOps
page
In the resource menu, select the organization that is bound to your Google SecOps
instance and that you are ingesting data from.
Check the box labeled
I want to disconnect Google SecOps and stop sending Google Cloud Logs into Google SecOps
.
Click
Disconnect Google SecOps
.
Control the rate of ingestion
When the data ingestion rate for a tenant reaches a certain threshold,
Google Security Operations restricts the rate of ingestion for new data feeds to prevent
a source with a high ingestion rate from affecting the ingestion rate of another
data source. In this case, there is a delay but no data is lost. The ingestion
volume and tenant's usage history determine the threshold.
You can request a rate limit increase by contacting
Cloud Customer Care
.
Troubleshooting
If the relationships between resources and identities are missing from your
Google SecOps instance, disable and then re-enable direct ingestion of log data to Google SecOps.
Google Cloud asset metadata is periodically ingested into Google SecOps. Allow several hours for changes to appear
in the Google SecOps UI and APIs.
When you add a log type to the export filter, you may see this message: "The provided filter can potentially allow unsupported log types".
Workaround: Only include log types to the export filter, that appear in the following list:
Google Cloud log types
supported for export
.
What's next
Open your Google SecOps instance using the customer specific URL provided by your Google SecOps representative.
Learn more about
Google SecOps
.
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
