# Investigate cases with Gemini

**Source:** https://docs.cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/soar/investigate/working-with-cases/investigate-cases-alerts-gemini/  
**Scraped:** 2026-03-05T09:33:55.926578Z

---

Home
Documentation
Security
Google Security Operations
Guides
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Investigate cases with Gemini
Supported in:
Google secops
This document explains how to ask Gemini questions about cases, alerts,
and playbooks directly from the
Cases Management
pages. Your questions
are context-aware—based on the specific page or tab you're viewing, such as
the
Cases
page,
Alerts
tab, or
Playbooks
tab.
Ask Gemini case questions
Open one of the
Case
pages.
Open the
Gemini
pane.
Enter a case-related question in the prompt. The question can relate to the current tab:
Case Overview
or
Case Wall
: Ask about case-level information.
For example,
Give me the names of everyone who left comments on the Case Wall.
Alerts
: Ask about a specific question related to that alert.
For example,
Can you summarize this alert?
Alerts Playbooks
: Ask about the behavior of attached playbooks.
For example,
Is the first attached playbook using Virus Total?
Review the results returned by Gemini and refine your query if needed.
Delete a chat session
You can delete your chat conversation session or delete all chat sessions.
Gemini maintains all user conversation histories privately and adheres
to Google Cloud's
responsible AI
practices
. User history is never used to train models.
In the Gemini pane, select
Delete chat
from the menu at the
top right.
Click
Delete chat
at the bottom right to delete the current chat
session.
Optional: To delete all chat sessions, select
Delete all chat sessions
and then click
Delete all chats
.
Provide feedback
You can provide feedback to responses generated by the Gemini AI
investigation assistance. Your feedback helps Google improve the feature and the
output generated by Gemini.
In the Gemini pane, click
thumb_up
Thumb Up
or
thumb_down
Thumb Down
.
Optional: Click
thumb_down
Thumb Down
and provide feedback.
Click
Send feedback
.
You can also summarize cases using Gemini. For more information, see
Use the Gemini case summary widget
Need more help?
Get answers from Community members and Google SecOps professionals.
